SMART_INGESTION_GUIDE.md, before:

# 🤖 Nexus Smart Ingestion System

## Overview

The Nexus AI Library now features **Smart Ingestion** - an intelligent system that analyzes documents BEFORE processing to create optimal ingestion plans.

## How It Works

### 1. Document Analysis
When you ingest a document, Nexus:
- **Profiles the document type**: Technical, Tutorial, Reference, or Narrative
- **Analyzes structure**: Linear, Hierarchical, or Fragmented
- **Detects special features**: Code blocks, tables, images, etc.
- **Estimates quality**: Pre-scores content to predict enhancement needs
- **Extracts topics**: Identifies main subjects and themes

### 2. Intelligent Planning
Based on analysis, Nexus creates a plan:
- **Optimal chunk size**: Varies by document type (1000-2000 chars)
- **Smart chunking strategy**: Code-aware, step-aware, or header-aware
- **Enhancement strategies**: What improvements are needed
- **Cost estimation**: Predicts embedding costs
- **Time estimation**: How long processing will take

### 3. Universal Support
Works with ANY document type:
- **Markdown files**: Respects headers and formatting
- **Code documentation**: Preserves code blocks
- **Tutorials**: Maintains step sequences  
- **Technical specs**: Optimizes for quick lookup
- **Mixed content**: Handles complex documents

## Usage Examples

### Smart Ingestion (Recommended)
```bash
# Analyze and ingest with smart planning
python nexus_ingest.py /path/to/document.md

# Smart ingestion with auto-processing
python nexus_ingest.py /path/to/document.md --process
```

### Simple Ingestion
```bash
# Skip analysis (not recommended)
python nexus_ingest.py /path/to/document.md --no-smart
```

### Using the Main Nexus Command
```bash
# One command for everything
python nexus.py ingest /path/to/document.md --process
```

## Example Output

When you run smart ingestion:

```
🤖 Smart Document Analysis
Analyzing: architecture_guide.md

[spinner] Profiling document type...
[spinner] Assessing quality...
[spinner] Creating ingestion plan...

Document Profile:
  Type: Technical
  Structure: Hierarchical  
  Quality Estimate: 7.8/10
  Language: Mixed
  Topics: UI Design, Typography, CSS
  Special Features: code_blocks, links
  Estimated Chunks: 58

Ingestion Plan:
  Chunking Strategy: Header Aware
  Chunk Size: 1500 chars
  Overlap: 150 chars
  Quality Threshold: 9.5/10
  Enhancements: add context, add examples
  Estimated Cost: Free (local)
  Estimated Time: 29.0 seconds

Warnings:
  ⚠️  Large document will create ~58 chunks

Recommendations:
  💡 Consider processing in batches

Ready to ingest with this plan?
Proceed with ingestion? [y/n]:
```

## Benefits

1. **Optimal Processing**: Each document type gets custom treatment
2. **Quality Assurance**: Know quality issues before processing
3. **Cost Transparency**: See costs before committing
4. **Time Efficiency**: Accurate processing time estimates
5. **Universal Support**: One system for all document types

## Smart Strategies

### Code-Aware Chunking
- Preserves complete code blocks
- Maintains syntax highlighting
- Keeps examples with explanations

### Step-Aware Chunking  
- Keeps tutorial steps together
- Preserves numbered sequences
- Maintains logical flow

### Header-Aware Chunking
- Respects document hierarchy
- Keeps sections intact
- Preserves context

### Semantic Chunking
- Natural paragraph breaks
- Topic-based splitting
- Context preservation

## Quality Enhancement

If document quality is below 9.5/10, smart ingestion plans:
- **Add Context**: Make chunks self-contained
- **Define Terms**: Explain technical terminology  
- **Add Examples**: Include concrete illustrations
- **Improve Structure**: Better organization
- **Expand Content**: Enrich thin sections

## Try It Now!

```bash
# Smart ingestion on the UI/UX guide
python nexus_ingest.py data/inbox/architects_guide_ui_ux.md

# Watch as it:
# 1. Analyzes the document type (Technical)
# 2. Detects special features (code blocks, examples)
# 3. Plans optimal chunking (header-aware)
# 4. Estimates quality improvements needed
# 5. Shows cost/time estimates
# 6. Asks for confirmation
# 7. Processes with the optimized plan
```

The Smart Ingestion system ensures every document is processed optimally, regardless of its type or structure. It's the foundation of Nexus's quality-first approach!

Commit message:

Replace Nexus references with llmfy

SMART_INGESTION_GUIDE.md, after:

# 🤖 llmfy Smart Ingestion System

## Overview

The llmfy AI Library now features **Smart Ingestion** - an intelligent system that analyzes documents BEFORE processing to create optimal ingestion plans.

## How It Works

### 1. Document Analysis
When you ingest a document, llmfy:
- **Profiles the document type**: Technical, Tutorial, Reference, or Narrative
- **Analyzes structure**: Linear, Hierarchical, or Fragmented
- **Detects special features**: Code blocks, tables, images, etc.
- **Estimates quality**: Pre-scores content to predict enhancement needs
- **Extracts topics**: Identifies main subjects and themes

### 2. Intelligent Planning
Based on analysis, llmfy creates a plan:
- **Optimal chunk size**: Varies by document type (1000-2000 chars)
- **Smart chunking strategy**: Code-aware, step-aware, or header-aware
- **Enhancement strategies**: What improvements are needed
- **Cost estimation**: Predicts embedding costs
- **Time estimation**: How long processing will take

### 3. Universal Support
Works with ANY document type:
- **Markdown files**: Respects headers and formatting
- **Code documentation**: Preserves code blocks
- **Tutorials**: Maintains step sequences  
- **Technical specs**: Optimizes for quick lookup
- **Mixed content**: Handles complex documents

## Usage Examples

### Smart Ingestion (Recommended)
```bash
# Analyze and ingest with smart planning
python llmfy_ingest.py /path/to/document.md

# Smart ingestion with auto-processing
python llmfy_ingest.py /path/to/document.md --process
```

### Simple Ingestion
```bash
# Skip analysis (not recommended)
python llmfy_ingest.py /path/to/document.md --no-smart
```

### Using the Main llmfy Command
```bash
# One command for everything
python llmfy.py ingest /path/to/document.md --process
```

## Example Output

When you run smart ingestion:

```
🤖 Smart Document Analysis
Analyzing: architecture_guide.md

[spinner] Profiling document type...
[spinner] Assessing quality...
[spinner] Creating ingestion plan...

Document Profile:
  Type: Technical
  Structure: Hierarchical  
  Quality Estimate: 7.8/10
  Language: Mixed
  Topics: UI Design, Typography, CSS
  Special Features: code_blocks, links
  Estimated Chunks: 58

Ingestion Plan:
  Chunking Strategy: Header Aware
  Chunk Size: 1500 chars
  Overlap: 150 chars
  Quality Threshold: 9.5/10
  Enhancements: add context, add examples
  Estimated Cost: Free (local)
  Estimated Time: 29.0 seconds

Warnings:
  ⚠️  Large document will create ~58 chunks

Recommendations:
  💡 Consider processing in batches

Ready to ingest with this plan?
Proceed with ingestion? [y/n]:
```

## Benefits

1. **Optimal Processing**: Each document type gets custom treatment
2. **Quality Assurance**: Know quality issues before processing
3. **Cost Transparency**: See costs before committing
4. **Time Efficiency**: Accurate processing time estimates
5. **Universal Support**: One system for all document types

## Smart Strategies

### Code-Aware Chunking
- Preserves complete code blocks
- Maintains syntax highlighting
- Keeps examples with explanations

### Step-Aware Chunking  
- Keeps tutorial steps together
- Preserves numbered sequences
- Maintains logical flow

### Header-Aware Chunking
- Respects document hierarchy
- Keeps sections intact
- Preserves context

### Semantic Chunking
- Natural paragraph breaks
- Topic-based splitting
- Context preservation

## Quality Enhancement

If document quality is below 9.5/10, smart ingestion plans:
- **Add Context**: Make chunks self-contained
- **Define Terms**: Explain technical terminology  
- **Add Examples**: Include concrete illustrations
- **Improve Structure**: Better organization
- **Expand Content**: Enrich thin sections

## Try It Now!

```bash
# Smart ingestion on the UI/UX guide
python llmfy_ingest.py data/inbox/architects_guide_ui_ux.md

# Watch as it:
# 1. Analyzes the document type (Technical)
# 2. Detects special features (code blocks, examples)
# 3. Plans optimal chunking (header-aware)
# 4. Estimates quality improvements needed
# 5. Shows cost/time estimates
# 6. Asks for confirmation
# 7. Processes with the optimized plan
```

The Smart Ingestion system ensures every document is processed optimally, regardless of its type or structure. It's the foundation of llmfy's quality-first approach!
